README.md, before:

# DSA-Path-And-Important-Questions
I am planning to add a beginner friendly path for my Juniors to Learn DSA 

Are you a Newbie in programming and want to dive deep into it?

<p align="center"><img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/l4q83E0RjRSGLXBLO/giphy.gif" width = 40%></p>

Are you looking for some good resources DSA

<p align="center"><img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/Uq4XZx6xm8bdVgrv9T/giphy.gif" width = 40%></p>

Do you want to make your DSA strong 🤩

<p align="center"><img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/3oEjI8vagntG7EDxgQ/giphy.gif" width = 40%></p>

Then, You got here right!!

## Problems With Related Article and Practice Problems on different platforms

### 1.Basics Maths
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
| Digits In Factorial | [Count digits in a factorial Set 1 by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-digits-factorial-set-1/) <br> [Count digits in a factorial Set 2 by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-digits-factorial-set-2/) | [geeksforgeeks](https://www.codechef.com/problems/FCTDIG) <br> [CodeChef](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/count-digits-in-a-factorial3957/1)
|Exactly 3 Divisors| [Exactly 3 Divisors by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/numbers-exactly-3-divisors/) | [geeksforgeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/3-divisors3942/1) <br> [Coding Ninjas](https://www.codingninjas.com/codestudio/problems/3-divisors_1063251)
|Primality Test | [Prime Numbers](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/prime-numbers/) <br> [Introduction and School Method](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/primality-test-set-1-introduction-and-school-method/) <br> [Fermat Method](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/primality-test-set-2-fermet-method/) <br>  | [CodeChef](https://www.codechef.com/problems/PRB01)


### 2.Arrays
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array| [Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/remove-duplicates-sorted-array/) <br> [Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array Codesdope](https://www.codesdope.com/blog/article/remove-duplicate-elements-from-sorted-array/) | [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-
|Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space||
|Trapping Rain Water| [Trapping Rain Water by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/trapping-rain-water/) <br>|
|Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array||
|Reverse array in groups||
|Rotate Array||
|Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space|[Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/rearrange-given-array-place/)| [GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/rearrange-an-array-with-o1-extra-space3142/1)
|Trapping Rain Water|[Trapping Rain Water by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/trapping-rain-water/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/trapping-rain-water-1587115621/1)
|Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array|[Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array by gfg](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/remove-duplicate-elements-from-sorted-array/1)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/remove-duplicate-elements-from-sorted-array/1)
|Reverse array in groups|[Reverse array in groups by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/reverse-an-array-in-groups-of-given-size/)| [GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/reverse-array-in-groups/0)
|Rotate Array|[Rotate array by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/array-rotation/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/rotate-array-by-n-elements/0)
|Equilibrium Point| [Equilibrium Point](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/equilibrium-index-of-an-array/) |
|Leaders in an array| [Leaders in an array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/leaders-in-an-array/) |
|Wave Array|[Wave Array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sort-array-wave-form-2/)|
|Subarray with given sum|[Subarray with given sum](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-subarray-with-given-sum/)|
|Kadane's Algorithm|[Kadane's Algorithm](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/largest-sum-contiguous-subarray/)|
|Find Transition Point|[Find Transition Point](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-transition-point-binary-array/)|
|Leaders in an array|[Leaders in an array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/leaders-in-an-array/)|
|First Repeating Element|[First Repeating Element](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-first-repeating-element-array-integers/)|
|Smallest Positive missing number|[Smallest Positive missing number](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-the-smallest-positive-number-missing-from-an-unsorted-array/)|
|Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space|[Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/rearrange-given-array-place/)|
|Merge Without Extra Space||

### 3.Matrix
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Adding two matrices|[Adding two matrices](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-addition-two-matrices/)|
|Multiply the matrices|[Multiply the matrices](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/precalculus/x9e81a4f98389efdf:matrices/x9e81a4f98389efdf:multiplying-matrices-by-matrices/a/multiplying-matrices)|
|Determinant of a Matrix|[Determinant of a Matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/determinant-of-a-matrix/)|
|Transpose of Matrix|[Transpose of Matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-to-find-transpose-of-a-matrix/)|
|Rotate by 90 degree|[Rotate by 90 degree](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/inplace-rotate-square-matrix-by-90-degrees/)|
|Spirally traversing a matrix|[Spirally traversing a matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-a-given-matrix-in-spiral-form/)|
|Search in a row-column sorted Matrix|[Search in a row-column sorted Matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/search-in-row-wise-and-column-wise-sorted-matrix/)|
|Max rectangle||

### 4.Searching and Sorting
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Square root of a number|[Square root of a number](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/square-root-of-an-integer/)|
|Binary Search|[Binary Search](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-search/)|
|Peak element|[Peak element](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-a-peak-in-a-given-array/)|
|Search an element in sorted and rotated array|[Search an element in sorted and rotated array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/search-an-element-in-a-sorted-and-pivoted-array/)|
|Merge Sort|[Merge Sort](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/merge-sort/)|
|Quick Sort||
|Union of Two Sorted Arrays||
|Intersection of two sorted arrays||
|Minimum Swaps to Sort||
|Minimum Platforms||
|Median of Two sorted arrays||
|Sort an array of 0s, 1s and 2s||

### 5.Bit Manipulation
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Check whether K-th bit is set or not|[Check whether K-th bit is set or not by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/check-whether-k-th-bit-set-not)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/check-whether-k-th-bit-is-set-or-not-1587115620/1)
|Count total set bits|[Count total set bits by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-total-set-bits-in-all-numbers-from-1-to-n/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/count-total-set-bits-1587115620/1) [ InterviewBit](https://www.interviewbit.com/problems/count-total-set-bits/)
|Number is sparse or not|[Check if a given number is sparse or not by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/check-if-a-given-number-is-sparse-or-not/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/number-is-sparse-or-not-1587115620/1)
|Binary To Gray Code equivalent|[Gray to Binary and Binary to Gray conversion by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/gray-to-binary-and-binary-to-gray-conversion/)|[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/gray-code/)
|Gray to Binary equivalent|[Gray to Binary and Binary to Gray conversion by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/gray-to-binary-and-binary-to-gray-conversion/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/gray-to-binary-equivalent-1587115620/1)
|Power of 2|[Program to find whether a given number is power of 2 gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-to-find-whether-a-given-number-is-power-of-2/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/power-of-2-1587115620/1)
|Find first set bit|[finding the first set bit in a binary number on Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21623614/finding-the-first-set-bit-in-a-binary-number)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/find-first-set-bit-1587115620/1)
|Rightmost different bit|[Position of rightmost different bit by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/position-rightmost-different-bit/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/rightmost-different-bit-1587115621/1)
|Swap all odd and even bits|[Swap all odd and even bits](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/swap-all-odd-and-even-bits/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/swap-all-odd-and-even-bits-1587115621/1)
|Maximum subset XOR|[Maximum subset XOR](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/maximum-subset-xor/1)|[Codeforces](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/9518)

### 6.Linked List
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|

### 7.Hashing
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|


## Need Help in [Web-Development-Path-And-Resources](https://github.com/arpit456jain/Web-Development-Path-And-Resources)
## DSA quick Revision [click here](https://github.com/arpit456jain/DSA-Quick-Revison)
## 11 Weeks Workshop on Data Structures and Algorithms Solution in [python](https://github.com/arpit456jain/gfg-11-Weeks-Workshop-on-DSA-in-Python)
## 11 Weeks Workshop on Data Structures and Algorithms Solution in [C++](https://github.com/arpit456jain/gfg-11-Weeks-Workshop-on-DSA-in-CPP)

<h2 align=center> ✨ Contributors </h2>

Thanks go to these **Wonderful People** 👨🏻‍💻:      🚀 **Contributions** of any kind are welcome! 

<table>
	<tr>
		 <td>
  		<a href="https://github.com/arpit456jain/DSA-Path-And-Important-Questions/graphs/contributors">
  			<img src="https://contributors-img.web.app/image?repo=arpit456jain/DSA-Path-And-Important-questions" />
  		</a>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

<hr>

<h1 align=center>Happy Coding 👨‍💻 </h1>

## 💬Join Our CodeSmashers Community

Join - https://discord.gg/gtYUZQSjTt

Show some ❤️&nbsp; by giving <img src="https://imgur.com/o7ncZFp.jpg" height=25px width=25px> to this repo

Commit message:

Added CONTRIBUTING..md file, describing how to get started with contribution to the project.

README.md, after:

# DSA-Path-And-Important-Questions
I am planning to add a beginner friendly path for my Juniors to Learn DSA 

Are you a Newbie in programming and want to dive deep into it?

<p align="center"><img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/l4q83E0RjRSGLXBLO/giphy.gif" width = 40%></p>

Are you looking for some good resources DSA

<p align="center"><img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/Uq4XZx6xm8bdVgrv9T/giphy.gif" width = 40%></p>

Do you want to make your DSA strong 🤩

<p align="center"><img src="https://media.giphy.com/media/3oEjI8vagntG7EDxgQ/giphy.gif" width = 40%></p>

Then, You got here right!!

If you are looking contibute, get yourself started from [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md).

## Problems With Related Article and Practice Problems on different platforms

### 1.Basics Maths
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
| Digits In Factorial | [Count digits in a factorial Set 1 by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-digits-factorial-set-1/) <br> [Count digits in a factorial Set 2 by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-digits-factorial-set-2/) | [geeksforgeeks](https://www.codechef.com/problems/FCTDIG) <br> [CodeChef](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/count-digits-in-a-factorial3957/1)
|Exactly 3 Divisors| [Exactly 3 Divisors by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/numbers-exactly-3-divisors/) | [geeksforgeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/3-divisors3942/1) <br> [Coding Ninjas](https://www.codingninjas.com/codestudio/problems/3-divisors_1063251)
|Primality Test | [Prime Numbers](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/prime-numbers/) <br> [Introduction and School Method](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/primality-test-set-1-introduction-and-school-method/) <br> [Fermat Method](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/primality-test-set-2-fermet-method/) <br>  | [CodeChef](https://www.codechef.com/problems/PRB01)


### 2.Arrays
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array| [Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/remove-duplicates-sorted-array/) <br> [Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array Codesdope](https://www.codesdope.com/blog/article/remove-duplicate-elements-from-sorted-array/) | [LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/remove-duplicates-from-sorted-
|Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space||
|Trapping Rain Water| [Trapping Rain Water by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/trapping-rain-water/) <br>|
|Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array||
|Reverse array in groups||
|Rotate Array||
|Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space|[Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/rearrange-given-array-place/)| [GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/rearrange-an-array-with-o1-extra-space3142/1)
|Trapping Rain Water|[Trapping Rain Water by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/trapping-rain-water/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/trapping-rain-water-1587115621/1)
|Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array|[Remove duplicate elements from sorted Array by gfg](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/remove-duplicate-elements-from-sorted-array/1)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/remove-duplicate-elements-from-sorted-array/1)
|Reverse array in groups|[Reverse array in groups by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/reverse-an-array-in-groups-of-given-size/)| [GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/reverse-array-in-groups/0)
|Rotate Array|[Rotate array by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/array-rotation/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/rotate-array-by-n-elements/0)
|Equilibrium Point| [Equilibrium Point](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/equilibrium-index-of-an-array/) |
|Leaders in an array| [Leaders in an array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/leaders-in-an-array/) |
|Wave Array|[Wave Array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/sort-array-wave-form-2/)|
|Subarray with given sum|[Subarray with given sum](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-subarray-with-given-sum/)|
|Kadane's Algorithm|[Kadane's Algorithm](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/largest-sum-contiguous-subarray/)|
|Find Transition Point|[Find Transition Point](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-transition-point-binary-array/)|
|Leaders in an array|[Leaders in an array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/leaders-in-an-array/)|
|First Repeating Element|[First Repeating Element](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-first-repeating-element-array-integers/)|
|Smallest Positive missing number|[Smallest Positive missing number](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-the-smallest-positive-number-missing-from-an-unsorted-array/)|
|Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space|[Rearrange an array with O(1) extra space](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/rearrange-given-array-place/)|
|Merge Without Extra Space||

### 3.Matrix
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Adding two matrices|[Adding two matrices](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-addition-two-matrices/)|
|Multiply the matrices|[Multiply the matrices](https://www.khanacademy.org/math/precalculus/x9e81a4f98389efdf:matrices/x9e81a4f98389efdf:multiplying-matrices-by-matrices/a/multiplying-matrices)|
|Determinant of a Matrix|[Determinant of a Matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/determinant-of-a-matrix/)|
|Transpose of Matrix|[Transpose of Matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-to-find-transpose-of-a-matrix/)|
|Rotate by 90 degree|[Rotate by 90 degree](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/inplace-rotate-square-matrix-by-90-degrees/)|
|Spirally traversing a matrix|[Spirally traversing a matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/print-a-given-matrix-in-spiral-form/)|
|Search in a row-column sorted Matrix|[Search in a row-column sorted Matrix](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/search-in-row-wise-and-column-wise-sorted-matrix/)|
|Max rectangle||

### 4.Searching and Sorting
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Square root of a number|[Square root of a number](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/square-root-of-an-integer/)|
|Binary Search|[Binary Search](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/binary-search/)|
|Peak element|[Peak element](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/find-a-peak-in-a-given-array/)|
|Search an element in sorted and rotated array|[Search an element in sorted and rotated array](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/search-an-element-in-a-sorted-and-pivoted-array/)|
|Merge Sort|[Merge Sort](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/merge-sort/)|
|Quick Sort||
|Union of Two Sorted Arrays||
|Intersection of two sorted arrays||
|Minimum Swaps to Sort||
|Minimum Platforms||
|Median of Two sorted arrays||
|Sort an array of 0s, 1s and 2s||

### 5.Bit Manipulation
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|
|Check whether K-th bit is set or not|[Check whether K-th bit is set or not by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/check-whether-k-th-bit-set-not)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/check-whether-k-th-bit-is-set-or-not-1587115620/1)
|Count total set bits|[Count total set bits by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/count-total-set-bits-in-all-numbers-from-1-to-n/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/count-total-set-bits-1587115620/1) [ InterviewBit](https://www.interviewbit.com/problems/count-total-set-bits/)
|Number is sparse or not|[Check if a given number is sparse or not by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/check-if-a-given-number-is-sparse-or-not/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/number-is-sparse-or-not-1587115620/1)
|Binary To Gray Code equivalent|[Gray to Binary and Binary to Gray conversion by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/gray-to-binary-and-binary-to-gray-conversion/)|[LeetCode](https://leetcode.com/problems/gray-code/)
|Gray to Binary equivalent|[Gray to Binary and Binary to Gray conversion by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/gray-to-binary-and-binary-to-gray-conversion/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/gray-to-binary-equivalent-1587115620/1)
|Power of 2|[Program to find whether a given number is power of 2 gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/program-to-find-whether-a-given-number-is-power-of-2/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/power-of-2-1587115620/1)
|Find first set bit|[finding the first set bit in a binary number on Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/21623614/finding-the-first-set-bit-in-a-binary-number)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/find-first-set-bit-1587115620/1)
|Rightmost different bit|[Position of rightmost different bit by gfg](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/position-rightmost-different-bit/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/rightmost-different-bit-1587115621/1)
|Swap all odd and even bits|[Swap all odd and even bits](https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/swap-all-odd-and-even-bits/)|[GeeksforGeeks](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/swap-all-odd-and-even-bits-1587115621/1)
|Maximum subset XOR|[Maximum subset XOR](https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/maximum-subset-xor/1)|[Codeforces](https://codeforces.com/blog/entry/9518)

### 6.Linked List
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|

### 7.Hashing
| Topic | Related Article | Practice Problems on different Platforms|
|---|---|---|


## Need Help in [Web-Development-Path-And-Resources](https://github.com/arpit456jain/Web-Development-Path-And-Resources)
## DSA quick Revision [click here](https://github.com/arpit456jain/DSA-Quick-Revison)
## 11 Weeks Workshop on Data Structures and Algorithms Solution in [python](https://github.com/arpit456jain/gfg-11-Weeks-Workshop-on-DSA-in-Python)
## 11 Weeks Workshop on Data Structures and Algorithms Solution in [C++](https://github.com/arpit456jain/gfg-11-Weeks-Workshop-on-DSA-in-CPP)

<h2 align=center> ✨ Contributors </h2>

Thanks go to these **Wonderful People** 👨🏻‍💻:      🚀 **Contributions** of any kind are welcome! 

<table>
	<tr>
		 <td>
  		<a href="https://github.com/arpit456jain/DSA-Path-And-Important-Questions/graphs/contributors">
  			<img src="https://contributors-img.web.app/image?repo=arpit456jain/DSA-Path-And-Important-questions" />
  		</a>
		</td>
	</tr>
</table>

<hr>

<h1 align=center>Happy Coding 👨‍💻 </h1>

## 💬Join Our CodeSmashers Community

Join - https://discord.gg/gtYUZQSjTt

Show some ❤️&nbsp; by giving <img src="https://imgur.com/o7ncZFp.jpg" height=25px width=25px> to this repo
